EDS configuration reorg 306576 (#224)
osisoft/Edge-Data-Store-Docs: content/egress/configure-data-egress.md

Once the OCS or PI Server destinations are prepared to receive OMF messages, configure data egress endpoints to create the connection to the destination and specify the details of the data transfer.

**Note**: You cannot add egress configurations manually because some parameters are stored to disk encrypted. You must use the REST endpoints to add/edit egress configuration. For additional endpoints, see [REST URLs](#rest-urls).

> **Warning**: If a periodic egress endpoint is deleted/removed and then recreated with `Backfill` set to `true`, duplicate data will appear on any stream that was previously egressed successfully. New streams will not see duplicate data.

Reviewer: Can we change "periodic egress endpoint" to "egress configuration" to reflect the facet name change?

> **Warning**: If a periodic egress endpoint is deleted/removed and then recreated with `Backfill` set to `true`, duplicate data will appear on any stream that was previously egressed successfully. New streams will not see duplicate data.

Author: ```suggestion
**Warning**: If you delete or remove an egress configuration and then recreate it with `Backfill` set to `true`, duplicate data will appear on any stream that was previously egressed successfully. New streams will not see duplicate data.
```

Reviewer: Looks good!

> ## Create egress endpoints

Author: ```suggestion
## Create egress configurations
```

To create new egress endpoints, follow these steps:

1. Create a JSON file containing one or more egress endpoints.

    - For content structure, see the following [Examples](#examples).

1. Update the parameters as needed. For a table of all available parameters, see [Parameters](#parameters).

> 

Reviewer: Can we change "PeriodicEgressEndpoints" to "EgressEndpoints" in the JSON file name and the URL?

Author: Changed.

## Create egress configurations

To create new egress endpoints, follow these steps:

1. Create a JSON file containing one or more egress endpoints.

    - For content structure, see the following [Examples](#examples).

1. Update the parameters as needed. For a table of all available parameters, see [Parameters](#parameters).

1. Save the JSON file with the name `EgressEndpoints.json` to any directory on the device where Edge Data Store is installed.

1. Use any tool capable of making HTTP requests to execute a POST command with the contents of that file to the following endpoint: `http://localhost:5590/api/v1/configuration/storage/egressendpoints/`

Example using cURL, which must be run from the directory where the JSON file is saved:

```bash
curl -d "@EgressEndpoints.config.json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" "http://localhost:5590/api/v1/configuration/storage/egressendpoints"
```

**Note**: The @ symbol is a required prefix for this command.

### Parameters

To support the reuse of common configuration blocks, EDS egress configuration is divided into four components:

> - `EgressConfigurations`: Ties together the three previous components and includes settings for type and stream prefixing, backfill, and more

Reviewer 2: It may make sense for EgressConfigurations to be first, but then the text should say "the three _following_ components" instead of "previous".

| **TokenEndpoint**               | Optional for OCS endpoint | string    | Used to retrieve an OCS token from an alternative endpoint. *This is not normally necessary with OCS. Only use if directed to do so by customer support.* |
| **ValidateEndpointCertificate** | Optional                  | boolean   | Validate endpoint certificate (recommended). If `false`, egress accepts any endpoint certificate. Use for testing only with self-signed certificates. Defaults to `true`. |

The following table lists egress parameters for `Schedules`.

| Parameter                       | Required                  | Type      | Description                                        |
|---------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------|
| **Id**                          | Required                  | string    | Unique identifier of the schedule configuration            |
| **Period**                      | Required                  | string    | Frequency of time between each egress action. Must be a string in the following format `d.hh:mm:ss.##`. |

> | **StartTime**                   | Required                  | string    | The UTC time when egress actions should begin. Must be a string in the following format `yyyy-MM-ddThh:mm:ss`.|

Author: ```suggestion
| **StartTime**                   | Optional                  | string    | The UTC time when egress actions should begin. Must be a string in the following format `yyyy-MM-ddThh:mm:ss`. Use the `StartTime` parameter if you want data egress to begin at or after a specific time instead of beginning immediately. |
```

## Create egress endpoints

To create new egress endpoints, follow these steps:

1. Create a JSON file containing one or more egress endpoints.

    - For content structure, see the following [Examples](#examples).

2. Update the parameters as needed. For a table of all available parameters, see [Parameters](#parameters).

3. Save the JSON file with the name `PeriodicEgressEndpoints.json` to any directory on the device where Edge Data Store is installed.

4. Use any tool capable of making HTTP requests to execute a POST command with the contents of that file to the following endpoint: `http://localhost:5590/api/v1/configuration/storage/periodicegressendpoints/`

Example using cURL, which must be run from the directory where the JSON file is saved:

```bash
curl -d "@PeriodicEgressEndpoints.config.json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" "http://localhost:5590/api/v1/configuration/storage/periodicegressendpoints"
```

**Note**: The @ symbol is a required prefix for this command.

> ### Parameters

Reviewer 2: I missed this comment before I added a similar one about adding an "overview" section. Agreed with the sentiment here.

> ### Parameters

Author: Add Paul's suggestion.

| **Description**                 | Optional                  | string    | Friendly description |
| **Enabled**                     | Optional                  | Boolean      | An indicator of whether egress is enabled when the egress endpoint is loaded. Defaults to true. |
| **Endpoint**                    | Required                  | string    | Destination that accepts OMF v1.1 messages. Supported destinations include OCS and PI. |
| **Id**                          | Optional                  | string    | Unique identifier |
| **Name**                        | Optional                  | string    | Friendly name |
| **Password**                    | Required for PI endpoint  | string    | Used for Basic authentication to the PI Web API OMF endpoint. |

> | **StreamPrefix**                | Optional                  | string    | Prefix applied to any streams that are egressed. A null string or a string containing only empty spaces will be ignored. The following restricted characters are not allowed: / : ? # [ ] @ ! $ & ' ( ) \ * + , ; = % | < > { } ` " |

Reviewer 2: StreamPrefix and TypePrefix aren't part of the endpoints facet. They belong to "EgressConfigurations".

Author: @pcrager to verify for consistency--should this be `EgressConfigurations` or `EgressConfiguration`. I have `EgressConfiguration` for the table below, but will correct it if needed.

curl -d "@PeriodicEgressEndpoints.config.json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" "http://localhost:5590/api/v1/configuration/storage/periodicegressendpoints"
```

**Note**: The @ symbol is a required prefix for this command.

### Parameters

To support the reuse of common configuration blocks, EDS egress configuration is divided into four components:

> * `Endpoints`: Describes the egress endpoint connectivity information

Reviewer: Can we change "Endpoints" to "EgressEndpoints"?

> * `Endpoints`: Describes the egress endpoint connectivity information

Author: ```suggestion
* `EgressEndpoints`: Describes the egress endpoint connectivity information
```

* `Schedules`: Describes the timing of data egress

* `DataSelectors`: Describes which data to egress and includes stream and data filtering

> * `Egress Configuration`: Ties together the three previous components and includes settings for type and stream prefixing, backfill, and more

Reviewer: Can we change "Egress Configuration" to "EgressConfigurations"?

> The following table lists egress parameters for `Endpoints`.

Reviewer: Can we change "Endpoints" to "EgressEndpoints"?

> The following table lists egress parameters for `Endpoints`.

Author: ```suggestion
The following table lists egress parameters for `EgressEndpoints`.
```

| Parameter                       | Required                  | Type      | Description                                        |
|---------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------|
| **ClientId**                    | Required for OCS endpoint | string    | Used for authentication with the OCS OMF endpoint |
| **ClientSecret**                | Required for OCS endpoint | string    | Used for authentication with the OCS OMF endpoint |

> | **DebugExpiration**             | Optional                  | string    | Enables logging of detailed information, for each outbound HTTP request pertaining to this egress endpoint, to disk. The value represents the date and time this detailed information should stop being saved. Examples of valid strings representing date and time:  UTC: "yyyy-mm-ddThh:mm:ssZ", Local: "mm-dd-yyyy hh:mm:ss". For more information, see [Troubleshoot Edge Data Store](xref:troubleShooting). |

Reviewer: This should be in the "EgressConfigurations" section.

> | **Description**                 | Optional                  | string    | Friendly description |

Reviewer: This should be in the "EgressConfigurations" section.

> | **Enabled**                     | Optional                  | Boolean      | An indicator of whether egress is enabled when the egress endpoint is loaded. Defaults to true. |

Reviewer: This should be in the "EgressConfigurations" section.

> | **Endpoint**                    | Required                  | string    | Destination that accepts OMF v1.1 messages. Supported destinations include OCS and PI. |

Reviewer: Here is the description we return in the EDS help menu, for [reference](https://dev.azure.com/osieng/engineering/_git/EDS.edge-storage?path=/OSIsoft.Data.Storage.EDS.Component/EDSCmdHelpService.cs): "Destination that accepts OMF v1.2 and older messages. Supported destinations include OCS and PI."

> | **Id**                          | Optional                  | string    | Unique identifier |

Reviewer: "Id" is required for "EgressEndpoints".

> | **Id**                          | Optional                  | string    | Unique identifier |

Author: ```suggestion
| **Id**                          | Required | string    | Unique identifier |
```

| **Password**                    | Required for PI endpoint  | string    | Used for Basic authentication to the PI Web API OMF endpoint |
| **TokenEndpoint**               | Optional for OCS endpoint | string    | Used to retrieve an OCS token from an alternative endpoint. *This is not normally necessary with OCS. Only use if directed to do so by customer support*. |
| **Username**                    | Required for PI endpoint  | string    | Used for Basic authentication to the PI Web API OMF endpoint. If domain is required, the backslash must be escaped (for example, *domain*\\\\*username*). |
| **ValidateEndpointCertificate** | Optional                  | Boolean   | Used to disable verification of destination certificate. Use for testing only with self-signed certificates. Defaults to true. |

The following table lists egress parameters for `Schedules`.

| Parameter                       | Required                  | Type      | Description                                        |
|---------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------|

> | **Id**                          | Optional                  | string    | Unique identifier |

Reviewer: "Id" is required for "Schedules".

The following table lists egress parameters for `DataSelectors`.

| Parameter                       | Required                  | Type      | Description                                        |
|---------------------------------|---------------------------|-----------|----------------------------------------------------|
| **Id**                          | Optional                  | string    | Unique identifier |
| **NamespaceId**                 | Optional                  | string    | Represents the namespace that will be egressed. There are two available namespaces: `default` and `diagnostics`. The default namespace is `default`. |
| **Backfill**                    | Optional                  | Boolean   | An indicator of whether data should be backfilled. Enabling the backfill flag will result in all data from the earliest index to the latest stored index being egressed. Data backfill occurs for each stream, including when you add a new stream. Once data backfill is complete for a stream, any out-of-order data is not egressed.  Defaults to `false`. |

> | **EgressFilter**                | Optional                  | string    | A filter used to determine which streams and types are egressed. For more information on valid filters, see [Search in SDS](xref:sdsSearching). |

Reviewer: "EgressFilter" was renamed to "StreamFilter"
